---

template:      article
reviewed:      2017-02-10
naviTitle:     Backups
title:         Working with fortrabbit backups
excerpt:       Download MySQL database backups
group:         platform
stack:         pro
uniLink:       backups-uni


---


## Problem

Data loss is something, which can happen to everybody: be it an unpatched security whole in your underlying CMS or be it the overworked content editor, who accidentally deletes rather important data. Whatever the cause, you should have backups to recover in case of disaster. Backups are notoriously underused, because it can be hard to set them up properly and also hard to monitor them continuously, to guarantee that they are there, when needed.

## Solution

Automatic, out-of-the box, off-site, encrypted daily MySQL backups, without configuration and without hassle.


## Availabilty

MySQL Backups are not included with all database plans. See our [pricing page](https://www.fortrabbit.com/pricing-pro) for more.


## Backup features

* Daily backups
* 30 days retention
* Zero downtime
* No performance impact on live database
* end-to-end encrypted transport
* AES-256 encrypted storage
* Stored in a non-public S3 bucket
* Easy access from the Dashboard
* Unlimited backup storage size


## Accessing backups

Find them in the Dashboard > Your App > Backups. There you can download gzipped `sql` files, containing the result of a `mysqldump` of your App's database.

### Older backups

If you need backups available for a longer time period than the retention time allows (see [specs page](https://www.fortrabbit.com/specs)), we recommend to periodically download the backups from the dashboard and store them locally.


### Recover MySQL

The MySQL backup file is a regular MySQL dump, generated by the `mysqldump` tool. You can recover from it the same way you would (re-)import MySQL data into your database. Please read on [in the MySQL import/export guide](mysql#toc-export-amp-import).

