---

template:      article
reviewed:      2016-11-28
naviTitle:     Backups
title:         Working fortrabbit backups
lead:
group:         platform
stack:         uni

---


## Problem

Data loss is something, which can happen to everybody: be it an unpatched security whole in your underlying CMS or be it the overworked content editor, who accidentally deletes rather important data. Whatever the cause, you should have backups to recover in case of disaster. Backups are notoriously underused, because it can be hard to set them up properly and also hard to monitor them continuously, to guarantee that they are there, when needed.

## Solution

Automatic, out-of-the box, off-site, encrypted daily backups, without configuration and without hassle.

<!-- TODO: link to marketing page when ready -->

## Availabilty

Please mind that backups are not included with all App plans. See our [pricing page](https://www.fortrabbit.com/pricing) for more.

## Backup features

* File backups (code + assets + user uploads)
* Low disk I/O > copy on write filesystem > only changes
* MySQL backups
* Zero downtime
* No performance impact on live database
* Secure off site backups
* end-to-end encrypted transport
* AES-256 encrypted storage
* Stored in a non-public S3 bucket
* 14 days retention
* Easy access from the Dashboard
* Unlimited backup storage size


## Access backups

If your App has backups: Find them in the Dashboard > Your Apps overview > Backups. We automatically generate two backup files per day: One of your App's web storage and one of your App's MySQL storage. The web storage backup file is a `tar` archive of all the contents of the `htdocs` folder of your App. The MySQL storage files is a plain `sql` file, containing the result of a `mysqldump` of your App's database.

If you need backups available for a longer time period than the retention time allows (see [specs page](https://www.fortrabbit.com/specs)), then we recommend to periodically download the backups from the dashboard and store them locally.

## Recover from backups

As mentioned above, there are two types of backups: MySQL and web storage. Here is how you recover from either:

### Recover from MySQL backups

The MySQL backup file is a regular MySQL dump, generated by the `mysqldump` tool. You can recover from it the same way you would (re-)import MySQL data into your database. Please read on [in the MySQL import/export guide](mysql#toc-export-amp-import).

### Recover from Web storage backups

Web storage backups are stored in an uncompressed `.tar` archive file. How to recover your web storage data, depends on what you want to recover: Just a single file, a couple of files or everything?

**Recover a single or a couple of files**: Just download the web storage backup file, unpack it locally, copy the files you want to recover manually to back to your App.

**Recover everything**: After downloading and unpacking the web storage `.tar` archive locally, you need to remove all files from your current App, then upload the previously unpacked archive again. **Note**: All changes (i.e. file uploads) in between the backup and you uploading it will be removed that way.
