docs/cloudflare.md, before:

---

template:         article
naviTitle:        CloudFlare
reviewed:         2019-01-21
title:            Using CloudFlare with fortrabbit
group:            Domains_and_DNS
section:          Extending_fortrabbit
stack:            all

websiteLink:      https://www.cloudflare.com
websiteLinkText:  cloudflare.com
category:         CDN
dataCenters:      n/a
image:            cloudflare-mark.png

keywords:
     - advanced
     - CDN
     - ddos
     - ssl

---


## About CloudFlare

CloudFlare is a "magical" multi-purpose website performance & security service, which works on DNS level. It can be used as a kind of Content Delivery Network and as a protection against Denial Of Service Attacks. It is also popular choice to get an SSL certificate for your domain without costs and hustle.


## Pricing and signup

It starts with a free plan with the basic features to get you started. [cloudflare.com/plans/](https://www.cloudflare.com/plans?utm_source=fortrabbit). Go to the [sign up page](https://www.cloudflare.com/a/sign-up) and enter email and choose a password.


## Integrating CloudFlare with fortrabbit

There is no technical connection between CloudFlare and fortrabbit. CloudFlare will be in between of your DNS provider and fortrabbit — think of it as proxy. You will set your name-servers (NS) to point to CloudFlare. 

### Setup CloudFlare

In the following example you first register your domain with your domain provider, then point it to fortrabbit using our standard settings, then CloudFlare will scan the DNS records for you:

1. Make sure to have a domain registered with a domain provider
2. Make sure to have added the domain in the fortrabbit Dashboard
3. Route the domain using our instructions still with your old DNS provider
4. Set up the domain with CloudFlare
4. CloudFlare will scan and use the DNS settings already in place
5. DONE

You might also start with a fresh domain from scratch within CloudFlare. Then CloudFlare will act as your DNS provider. Enter the DNS settings from the fortrabbit Dashboard with CloudFlare.

### Crypto setting

Each domain on CloudFlare comes with a bunch of settings. One is called "Crypto" and is about SSL. Your goal is that the whole communication between the user of your website is encrypted of course. Now, CloudFlare, as described above, is a proxy between your user and fortrabbit. The first lap from the user to CloudFlare is secured by default, but what about the the next one, between CloudFlare and fortrabbit? 

```
┌──────┐       ┌────────────┐             ┌────────────┐
│ User ├─HTTPS─▶ CloudFlare ├─ ? HTTPS ? ─▶ fortrabbit │
└──────┘       └────────────┘             └────────────┘
```

CloudFlare is the domain end point for the user. CloudFlare itself will actually talk to the App URL. The connection between the App and CloudFlare should also be encrypted. 

The App URL has HTTPS, so you can and should set SSL to **full** to ensure end-to-end encryption. The default **flexible** setting is not enough (as we think). "Full (strict)" mode will not work but is not necessary.


## Advanced topics

### CloudFlare VS fortrabbit Dashboard

CloudFlare is a bit of blackbox, DNS-wise. When you'll visit a domain in the fortrabbit Dashboard that is routed via CloudFlare a definite answer is not possible. The Dashboard is aware of many CloudFlare IPs, so it will likely guess that the domain is routed via CloudFlare. Still you might see an error, while in fact the domain is routed correctly.

### ClouFlare SSL VS Let's Encrypt

Many fortrabbit clients have used CloudFlare to get SSL, see our [HTTPS article](/https) as well, for their own custom domain without the need to book and setup a custom cert here. Now, fortrabbit also offers free SSL certificates via (free and zero-config) Let's Encrypt. So if that is your aim, you'll might not need CloudFlare.

### Other reasons to use CloudFlare

While free SSL has become a commodity, there are other reasons to use CloudFlare:

* Enhanced DDoS protection
* CNAME Flattening for naked domains (naked domain directly with fortrabbit)
* Domain analytics
* …

## Prevent direct access

You may want to assure all traffic is routed through CloudFlare. This is important to secure 360 DDoS protection. You'll basically disable the App URL to be accessible. To block direct access and whitelist only CloudFlare's IPs, extend your `.htaccess` file with the following rules:

```
ErrorDocument 403 "Not Allowed"
Deny from all

### Cloudflare IPs ###

Allow from 103.21.244.0/22
Allow from 103.22.200.0/22
Allow from 103.31.4.0/22
Allow from 104.16.0.0/12
Allow from 108.162.192.0/18
Allow from 131.0.72.0/22
Allow from 141.101.64.0/18
Allow from 162.158.0.0/15
Allow from 172.64.0.0/13
Allow from 173.245.48.0/20
Allow from 188.114.96.0/20
Allow from 190.93.240.0/20
Allow from 197.234.240.0/22
Allow from 198.41.128.0/17
Allow from 2400:cb00::/32
Allow from 2405:8100::/32
Allow from 2405:b500::/32
Allow from 2606:4700::/32
Allow from 2803:f800::/32
Allow from 2c0f:f248::/32
Allow from 2a06:98c0::/29
```

As the IP ranges might change from time to time, you should update them on a regular basis. [Here](https://www.cloudflare.com/ips/) you can find the current IP ranges. [This little script](https://gist.github.com/ostark/e9c577cd63a573b7417828d99da540e1) helps you to keep your whitelist up-to-date, ideally you run it [during deployment](/deployment-file-v2).   


## Alternatives to CloudFlare

CloudFlare is a magical package of different services all combined and streamlined in a single offering. Mind: with using CloudFlare, you make yourself dependent that this critical component (DNS/NS)) of your infrastructure is working correctly. It's another SPOF that makes your setup more complex and that can fail. In overall, it's likely more likely that your website will stay up with CloudFlare enabled.

Some of our clients prefer separation of services, instead of CloudFlare, they'll might use dedicated services for DNS/domain and CDN.

Commit message:

Added for naked domain with CloudFlare - thx KEN

docs/cloudflare.md, after:

---

template:         article
naviTitle:        CloudFlare
reviewed:         2019-03-08
title:            Using CloudFlare with fortrabbit
group:            Domains_and_DNS
section:          Extending_fortrabbit
stack:            all

websiteLink:      https://www.cloudflare.com
websiteLinkText:  cloudflare.com
category:         CDN
dataCenters:      n/a
image:            cloudflare-mark.png

keywords:
     - advanced
     - CDN
     - ddos
     - ssl

---


## About CloudFlare

CloudFlare is a "magical" multi-purpose website performance & security service, which works on DNS level. It can be used as a kind of Content Delivery Network and as a protection against Denial Of Service Attacks. It is also popular choice to get an SSL certificate for your domain without costs and hustle.


## Pricing and signup

It starts with a free plan with the basic features to get you started. [cloudflare.com/plans/](https://www.cloudflare.com/plans?utm_source=fortrabbit). Go to the [sign up page](https://www.cloudflare.com/a/sign-up) and enter email and choose a password.


## Integrating CloudFlare with fortrabbit

There is no technical connection between CloudFlare and fortrabbit. CloudFlare will be in between of your DNS provider and fortrabbit — think of it as proxy. You will set your name-servers (NS) to point to CloudFlare. 

### Setup CloudFlare

In the following example you first register your domain with your domain provider, then point it to fortrabbit using our standard settings, then CloudFlare will scan the DNS records for you:

1. Make sure to have a domain registered with a domain provider
2. Make sure to have added the domain in the fortrabbit Dashboard
3. Route the domain using our instructions still with your old DNS provider
4. Set up the domain with CloudFlare
4. CloudFlare will scan and use the DNS settings already in place
5. DONE

You might also start with a fresh domain from scratch within CloudFlare. Then CloudFlare will act as your DNS provider. Enter the DNS settings from the fortrabbit Dashboard with CloudFlare.

### Crypto setting

Each domain on CloudFlare comes with a bunch of settings. One is called "Crypto" and is about SSL. Your goal is that the whole communication between the user of your website is encrypted of course. Now, CloudFlare, as described above, is a proxy between your user and fortrabbit. The first lap from the user to CloudFlare is secured by default, but what about the the next one, between CloudFlare and fortrabbit? 

```
┌──────┐       ┌────────────┐             ┌────────────┐
│ User ├─HTTPS─▶ CloudFlare ├─ ? HTTPS ? ─▶ fortrabbit │
└──────┘       └────────────┘             └────────────┘
```

CloudFlare is the domain end point for the user. CloudFlare itself will actually talk to the App URL. The connection between the App and CloudFlare should also be encrypted. 

The App URL has HTTPS, so you can and should set SSL to **full** to ensure end-to-end encryption. The default **flexible** setting is not enough (as we think). "Full (strict)" mode will not work but is not necessary.


## Advanced topics

### CloudFlare VS fortrabbit Dashboard

CloudFlare is a bit of blackbox, DNS-wise. When you'll visit a domain in the fortrabbit Dashboard that is routed via CloudFlare a definite answer is not possible. The Dashboard is aware of many CloudFlare IPs, so it will likely guess that the domain is routed via CloudFlare. Still you might see an error, while in fact the domain is routed correctly.

### ClouFlare SSL VS Let's Encrypt

Many fortrabbit clients have used CloudFlare to get SSL, see our [HTTPS article](/https) as well, for their own custom domain without the need to book and setup a custom cert here. Now, fortrabbit also offers free SSL certificates via (free and zero-config) Let's Encrypt. So if that is your aim, you'll might not need CloudFlare.

### Other reasons to use CloudFlare

While free SSL has become a commodity, there are other reasons to use CloudFlare:

* Enhanced DDoS protection
* CNAME Flattening for naked domains (naked domain directly with fortrabbit)
* Domain analytics
* …


### Using CloudFlare for naked domains

So, we tried to convince you that [a naked domain (a domain without www or other prefix) is not necessary at all](/domains#toc-naked-domains), but you still want a naked domain to be your primary domain instead of just a forward with fortrabbit: CloudFlare can help you here as well. You need to set two things in the CloudFlare Dashboard to make this work:

1. **DNS Settings**: choose CNAME and enter the naked as Name and the App URL as value (this is only possible with CloudFlare black magic)
2. **Page Rules**: `*.domainname.com/*` forward to `https://domainname.com` using 301 (that will catch if someone enters your domain with www)


### Prevent direct access

You may want to assure all traffic is routed through CloudFlare. This is important to secure 360 DDoS protection. You'll basically disable the App URL to be accessible. To block direct access and whitelist only CloudFlare's IPs, extend your `.htaccess` file with the following rules:

```
ErrorDocument 403 "Not Allowed"
Deny from all

### Cloudflare IPs ###

Allow from 103.21.244.0/22
Allow from 103.22.200.0/22
Allow from 103.31.4.0/22
Allow from 104.16.0.0/12
Allow from 108.162.192.0/18
Allow from 131.0.72.0/22
Allow from 141.101.64.0/18
Allow from 162.158.0.0/15
Allow from 172.64.0.0/13
Allow from 173.245.48.0/20
Allow from 188.114.96.0/20
Allow from 190.93.240.0/20
Allow from 197.234.240.0/22
Allow from 198.41.128.0/17
Allow from 2400:cb00::/32
Allow from 2405:8100::/32
Allow from 2405:b500::/32
Allow from 2606:4700::/32
Allow from 2803:f800::/32
Allow from 2c0f:f248::/32
Allow from 2a06:98c0::/29
```

As the IP ranges might change from time to time, you should update them on a regular basis. [Here](https://www.cloudflare.com/ips/) you can find the current IP ranges. [This little script](https://gist.github.com/ostark/e9c577cd63a573b7417828d99da540e1) helps you to keep your whitelist up-to-date, ideally you run it [during deployment](/deployment-file-v2).   


## Alternatives to CloudFlare

CloudFlare is a magical package of different services all combined and streamlined in a single offering. Mind: with using CloudFlare, you make yourself dependent that this critical component (DNS/NS)) of your infrastructure is working correctly. It's another SPOF that makes your setup more complex and that can fail. In overall, it's likely more likely that your website will stay up with CloudFlare enabled.

Some of our clients prefer separation of services, instead of CloudFlare, they'll might use dedicated services for DNS/domain and CDN.
