docs/composer.md, before:

---

template:      article
reviewed:      2016-12-20
title:         Leveraging Composer
naviTitle:     Composer
lead:          Learn how to integrate Composer into your development workflow with fortrabbit.
group:         deployment
stack:         all
oldLink:       composer-old

keywords:
  - composerphp
  - git
  - getcomposer
  - Dependency Manager

---

No need to explain this anymore: [Composer](http://getcomposer.org) is the defacto standard to handle PHP application dependencies, as well as providing mechanisms to keep them up2date.

## Usage

**TL;DR**: Just `git push`. On fortrabbit you [(of course) exclude](https://getcomposer.org/doc/faqs/should-i-commit-the-dependencies-in-my-vendor-directory.md) the `vendor` folder from Git. This directory is created by Composer within in your project locally and contains all the packages you are using. This way only your own code — not any dependency — is included into Git.

During deployment to fortrabbit Composer will be executed automatically, assuming that both the `composer.lock` file and the `composer.json` file are present.

The deployment build process executes `composer install` and never the update variant to make sure that exactly the packages your App requires are installed.

### Composer in the deployment file

You can fine tune your deployment behavior and aspects of Composer in the deployment file. See the options withunder the `composer:` keyword [here](deployment-file-v2).

### Use Private repositories in Composer

You need to add the private repositories into your `composer.json` file? Read on [here](private-composer-repos).

### Composer from SSH

Universal Apps only: You can execute Composer from [SSH](ssh-uni). Composer is pre-installed (latest stable) per default and all you need to do is execute it:

```bash
$ ssh {{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com
$ composer install
```

Commit message:

Extended composer help: Using alternate composer locations

docs/composer.md, after:

---

template:      article
reviewed:      2017-06-06
title:         Leveraging Composer
naviTitle:     Composer
lead:          Learn how to integrate Composer into your development workflow with fortrabbit.
group:         deployment
stack:         all
oldLink:       composer-old

keywords:
  - composerphp
  - git
  - getcomposer
  - Dependency Manager

---

No need to explain this anymore: [Composer](http://getcomposer.org) is the defacto standard to handle PHP application dependencies, as well as providing mechanisms to keep them up2date.

## Usage

**TL;DR**: Just `git push`. On fortrabbit you [(of course) exclude](https://getcomposer.org/doc/faqs/should-i-commit-the-dependencies-in-my-vendor-directory.md) the `vendor` folder from Git. This directory is created by Composer within in your project locally and contains all the packages you are using. This way only your own code — not any dependency — is included into Git.

During deployment to fortrabbit Composer will be executed automatically, assuming that both the `composer.lock` file and the `composer.json` file are present.

The deployment build process executes `composer install` and never the update variant to make sure that exactly the packages your App requires are installed.

### Composer in the deployment file

You can fine tune your deployment behavior and aspects of Composer in the deployment file. See the options withunder the `composer:` keyword [here](deployment-file-v2).

### Use Private repositories in Composer

You need to add the private repositories into your `composer.json` file? Read on [here](private-composer-repos).

### Composer from SSH

Universal Apps only: You can execute Composer from [SSH](ssh-uni). Composer is pre-installed (latest stable) per default and all you need to do is execute it:

```bash
$ ssh {{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com
$ composer install
```

### Use alternative location

If your `composer.json` and `composer.lock` file are not on top level, then they will be ignored by the deployment. For example, if those files are in `sub-folder` and the resulting `vendor` folder then would be in `sub-folder/vendor`, you can use the `pre` directive from the [deployment file](deployment-file):

**fortrabbit.yml**

```yaml
version: 2

# execute alternate composer run before anything
pre: composer-run.php

# makre sure the new vendor folder is sustained during deploys
sustained:
  - sub-folder/vendor
```

**composer-run.php**

```php
<?php

chdir("sub-folder");
execute("composer install");
```
