---

template:     article
reviewed:     2016-12-07
title:        Using Cron Jobs
naviTitle:    Cron Jobs
lead:         Use time scheduled cron jobs to execute long running operations in the background. They run at defined times, independent of visits to the web application.
group:        platform
stack:        uni
proLink:      worker-pro

---



## Use cases

**Database maintenance**: say the web application cumulates data which needs to be transformed and/or wiped periodically. A Cron Job allows you to make sure the `app/console db:cleanup` - or whatever - script executes hourly, daily, weekly or whenever your want.

**Cache clearing**: say the web application has a news site, which homepage must be rebuilt every ten minutes or so. With a Cron Job you can schedule a cleanup of the homepage every one, ten, thirty or whatever minutes required.


## Availabilty

Cron Jobs are only available for certain App plans. Please see the [plans & pricing page](https://www.fortrabbit.com/pricing) for more.

## Usage

You can configure your App's Cron Job in the Dashboard > {{app-name}} > Settings > Cron Jobs. To start a new Cron Job you'll need the set the following parameters:

### Name

A unique name, so the job can be identified later on in the logs or statistics.

### Command

The PHP command which shall be executed, eg `app/console db:cleanup` or `path/to/my-script.php`

### Interval

The interval at which you want to execute the job.

The interval timing is guaranteed, the exact time of execution is randomized. For example: 30 minutes will run at every 13th minute and at the 43rd minute again. All daily, weekly and monthly jobs run between 00:00 and 10:00 UTC. Weekly intervals will run on Monday.

## Logging

All output generated by Cron Jobs can be accessed via [log files](logging-uni#toc-log-file-access) and [live logs](logging-uni#toc-live-log-access).

## Alternatives

Universal Stack Apps support a single Cron Job per App with limited resources - shared with the PHP memory. Professional Apps come with the [Worker Component](worker-pro), which offers dedicated resources — not shared. The Worker Component also allows multiple Cron Jobs per App and additionally Nonstop Jobs, which are persistently running background workers. Shorter intervals are also possible.
