docs/deployment-file-v2.md, before:

---

template:      article
reviewed:      2016-02-14
title:         Advanced Git deployment workflows with fortrabbit.yml
naviTitle:     Deployment file
lead:          Enhance your deployment process with the fortrabbit.yml deployment file.
group:         Kitchen_sink

otherVersionLinks:
    - deployment-file-v1-old-app

seeAlsoLinks:
    - git
    - composer

tags:
   - advanced
   - git


---

## Problem

[Git push to deploy](git) is nice and easy to get your code up and running quickly. But deployment is not deployment — there is a huge variety of use cases and preferred workflows. The `fortrabbit.yml` is an optional helper to support your habits. With the deployment file version you can add post- or pre-deploy scripts and control how Composer behaves.

## Solution

Create a file named `fortrabbit.yml` in the App's root folder of your project and include it into Git. After each push, the friendly fortrabbit bots will look for the file and parse it if existent.

## Full schema

```yml
# differentiate from the deployment files for Old Apps
version: 2

# called before Composer runs
pre:
    
    # relative to ~/htdocs
    path: my-script.php

    # optional parameters
    args:
        - foo
        - bar
        - baz

# optional Composer settings
composer:
    
    # Per default dist is prefered
    prefer-source: false

    # Resolves to the --no-dev parameter
    no-dev: false

    # Resolves to the --no-plugins parameter
    no-plugins: false

    # Resolves to the --no-scripts parameter
    no-scripts: false

# called after Composer runs
post:

    # relative to ~/htdocs
    path: sub/folder/my-script.php
    
    # optional parameters
    args:
        - foo
        - bar
        - baz

# list of sustained folders in ~/htdocs. If not given, then it defaults to the "vendor" folder
sustained:
    - vendor

```


## A minimal example

A fortrabbit.yml which calls the PHP script `post.php` on top-level of the repo after Composer looks like this:

```yml
version: 2
post:
    path: post.php

```

## Multi staging use case

To allow using a single git repo with [multiple remotes](multi-staging) you can use an App name based deployment file name.

Assuming you are using two Apps, `my-app-prod` and `my-app-stage`, you can setup two deployment files with named: `fortrabbit.my-app-prod.yml` and `fortrabbit.my-app-stage.yml`. This way, you can have both deployment files in a single repo but which one is to be used is determined by the App you deploy to.

Commit message:

Remote SSH Exec: Additional examples / Worker + Deployment file: Mentioned development using remote exec

docs/deployment-file-v2.md, after:

---

template:      article
reviewed:      2016-05-31
title:         Advanced Git deployment workflows with fortrabbit.yml
naviTitle:     Deployment file
lead:          Enhance your deployment process with the fortrabbit.yml deployment file.
group:         Kitchen_sink

otherVersionLinks:
    - deployment-file-v1-old-app

seeAlsoLinks:
    - git
    - composer

tags:
   - advanced
   - git


---

## Problem

[Git push to deploy](git) is nice and easy to get your code up and running quickly. But deployment is not deployment — there is a huge variety of use cases and preferred workflows. The `fortrabbit.yml` is an optional helper to support your habits. With the deployment file version you can add post- or pre-deploy scripts and control how Composer behaves.

## Solution

Create a file named `fortrabbit.yml` in the App's root folder of your project and include it into Git. After each push, the friendly fortrabbit bots will look for the file and parse it if existent.

## Full schema

```yml
# differentiate from the deployment files for Old Apps
version: 2

# called before Composer runs
pre:

    # relative to ~/htdocs
    path: my-script.php

    # optional parameters
    args:
        - foo
        - bar
        - baz

# optional Composer settings
composer:

    # Per default dist is prefered
    prefer-source: false

    # Resolves to the --no-dev parameter
    no-dev: false

    # Resolves to the --no-plugins parameter
    no-plugins: false

    # Resolves to the --no-scripts parameter
    no-scripts: false

# called after Composer runs
post:

    # relative to ~/htdocs
    path: sub/folder/my-script.php

    # optional parameters
    args:
        - foo
        - bar
        - baz

# list of sustained folders in ~/htdocs. If not given, then it defaults to the "vendor" folder
sustained:
    - vendor

```


## A minimal example

A fortrabbit.yml which calls the PHP script `post.php` on top-level of the repo after Composer looks like this:

```yml
version: 2
post:
    path: post.php

```

## Developing pre or post calls

When developing you Worker pre or post calls it helps if you are able to execute them once and see what they do. To that end you can use [remote SSH commands](/remote-ssh-execution).

## Multi staging use case

To allow using a single git repo with [multiple remotes](multi-staging) you can use an App name based deployment file name.

Assuming you are using two Apps, `my-app-prod` and `my-app-stage`, you can setup two deployment files with named: `fortrabbit.my-app-prod.yml` and `fortrabbit.my-app-stage.yml`. This way, you can have both deployment files in a single repo but which one is to be used is determined by the App you deploy to.
