docs/directories-uni.md, before:

---

template:      article
reviewed:      2016-11-08
title:         Learn about your Apps directory structure
naviTitle:     Directory structure
group:         platform
stack:         uni
oldLink:       directories-old
uniLink:       directories-uni
hideExamples:  yes

keywords:
    - create directory
    - create
    - folder
    - directory
    - directories
    - linux
    - unix
    - web root
    - doc root
    - document root

---


```nohighlight
bin
dev
etc
lib64
proc
tmp               < 2GB temporaray files
usr
srv
  app
    appname
      htdocs      < default root path
```

<!-- TODO: Re-unite this article with "directories-pro" article -->

When you login with SFTP or SSH to your App.
The predefined set of folders for each App you need to know.

### appname

The actual name of your App, for example `/srv/app/{{app-name}}` and so on.

### htdocs

The default web root (aka document root) of your App. Directory that forms the main directory tree visible from the web. You can change the [routing point](domains#toc-set-a-custom-root-path), to any folder below the `htdocs` directory. The [Git deployment](git) syncs to the `htdocs` folder as well.

The `htdocs` folder is also your "login folder", i.e. the folder you are in when logging in via SSH/SFTP.

### tmp

Temporary folder; limited to 2GB of storage. Files older than 15 days will be automatically purged. Typical use cases are the default PHP session file folder or a temp destination for file uploads via PHP (before `move_uploaded_file()` is called).

For multi node plans: The `tmp` folder is not shared. Meaning that each node has "their own" temporary folder.

## Other folders

The rest of the folders (and files which are not shown here) are part of the standard Linux distribution. All this stuff is handled by us for you. So you don't have access privileges. You can't change things outside the above outlined context.

Commit message:

some TODOs in directories article

docs/directories-uni.md, after:

---

template:      article
reviewed:      2016-11-08
title:         Learn about your Apps directory structure
naviTitle:     Directory structure
group:         platform
stack:         uni
oldLink:       directories-old
uniLink:       directories-uni
hideExamples:  yes

keywords:
    - create directory
    - create
    - folder
    - directory
    - directories
    - linux
    - unix
    - web root
    - doc root
    - document root

---


```nohighlight
bin
dev
etc
lib64
proc
tmp               < 2GB temporaray files
usr
srv
  app
    {{app-name}}
      htdocs      < default root path
```

<!-- TODO: Re-unite this article with "directories-pro" article -->



When you login with [SFTP](/sftp-uni) or [SSH](ssh-uni) to your [Universal App](app-uni) you can travel up in the file directory structure. In this article you can learn the predefined set of folders for each App and what they are for.

### {{app-name}} folder

<!-- TODO: why write about this folder? maybe just write about a folder, when a user can do something with it? it's obvious that this is the App name.  -->

The actual name of your App, for example `/srv/app/{{app-name}}` and so on.

### htdocs

The default web root (aka document root) of your App. Directory that forms the main directory tree visible from the web. You can change the [routing point](domains#toc-set-a-custom-root-path), to any folder below the `htdocs` directory. The [Git deployment](git) syncs to the `htdocs` folder as well.

The `htdocs` folder is also your "login folder", i.e. the folder you are in when logging in via SSH/SFTP.

### tmp

Temporary folder; limited to 2GB of storage. Files older than 15 days will be automatically purged. Typical use cases are the default PHP session file folder or a temp destination for file uploads via PHP (before `move_uploaded_file()` is called).

For multi node plans: The `tmp` folder is not shared. Meaning that each node has "their own" temporary folder.

## Other folders

The rest of the folders (and files which are not shown here) are part of the standard Linux distribution. All this stuff is handled by us for you. So you don't have access privileges. You can't change things outside the above outlined context.
