docs/https.md, before:

---

template:      article
reviewed:      2018-06-11
title:         Using HTTPS with fortrabbit
naviTitle:     HTTPS on fortrabbit
excerpt:       All about HTTPS and TLS.
lead:          Criminals and goverment agencies are trying to read your Apps communication. Better serve all requests over HTTPS for extended privacy. 
group:         platform
stack:         all

keywords:
    - ssl
    - TLS
    - domain
    - subdomain
    - CA
    - Certificate Authority
    - port 443
    - port 80

---


**TLDR;** Free and zero-config SSL certificates for all domains are provided, nothing you have to take care of. Read on if you want to learn about advanced options.


## About HTTPS, TLS & SSL

`HTTPS` is **H**yper **T**ext **T**ransfer **P**rotocol over Transport Layer **S**ecurity. It is used to secure the data transport between a client (browser) and a server. HTTPS is based on **TLS** (Transport Layer Security), which is the successor to the still better known **SSL** (Secure Sockets Layer). 

Current browsers show a green lock in the address bar if the connection is over HTTPS, the certificate could be verified and if the certificate is still valid. Google is promoting "https everywhere" (snakeoil), your SEO pagerank might benefit from using HTTPS.

## HTTPS options on fortrabbit

As part of [security efforts](/security) our aim is to give you secure, still easy-to-use and affordable options. Available with all Apps on fortrabbit:

### 1. Piggyback HTTPS

That's the most easiest and most obvious way to quickly run your App on https. You can already access your [App URL](app#toc-app-url) using HTTPS. For example: `https://{{app-name}}.frb.io`. Use this URL for testing or if a custom domain is not important to you.

### 2. Automatic HTTPS

[Let's Encrypt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Let's_Encrypt) is a free certificate authority and can be used to generate free certificates for custom domains. The Automatic HTTPS feature is included for all fortrabbit Apps: All domains correctly added and routed will receive an SSL certificate by Let's Encrypt, no configuration or extra setup required. The certs will also be renewed automatically. This option does not work for wildcard domains (yet).

### 3. Custom HTTPS

Bring your own certificate: There are various use-cases to mandate a custom certificate, for example if you plan on using wildcard domains or need a green browser bar with your name > using a [higher trusted](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extended_Validation_Certificate) commercial certificate.

#### How use Custom HTTPS

The roadmap to setup TLS custom reads like so:

1. have an external [domain](domains) registered with your fortrabbit App
2. create a key and a certificate request locally (see below)
3. using the certificate request: purchase an TLS/SSL cert from a third party CA
4. (book the TLS component for your App in the Dashboard) < Pro App only
5. upload your key and cert(s) to the Dashboard
6. route all your (sub)domains to your App

#### Create a new key and certificate

To obtain a certificate, you first must create a certificate signing request (CSR). With the newly generated CSR, you can go to an external certificate vendor, which will issue a certificate for you. For Mac/Linux you can use `openssl` from the the command line like so:

```bash
openssl req -new -nodes -keyout {{app-name}}.key -out {{app-name}}.csr -newkey rsa:2048
# Generating a 2048 bit RSA private key
# ..........................................................................................++
# .............................................+++
# writing new private key to '{{app-name}}.key'
# -----
# You are about to be asked to enter information that will be incorporated
# into your certificate request.
# What you are about to enter is what is called a Distinguished Name or a DN.
# There are quite a few fields but you can leave some blank
# For some fields there will be a default value,
# If you enter '.', the field will be left blank.
# -----
# Country Name (2 letter code) [AU]:DE
# State or Province Name (full name) [Some-State]:Berlin
# Locality Name (eg, city) []:Berlin
# Organization Name (eg, company) [Internet Widgits Pty Ltd]:fortrabbit
# Organizational Unit Name (eg, section) []:Website
# Common Name (e.g. server FQDN or YOUR name) []:www.fortrabbit.com
# Email Address []:info@fortrabbit.com
# -----
# Please enter the following 'extra' attributes
# to be sent with your certificate request
# A challenge password []:
# An optional company name []

# Update key format
openssl rsa -in {{app-name}}.key -out {{app-name}}.rsa.key
```

Do not enter a password! Also: if you plan on using `www.yourdomain.tld`, don't miss the `www.` in the "Common Name"! When you have a wildcard domain, use `*domain.tld` as the Common Name.

#### Checking your CSR

You can decode the created CSR file to make sure did it correctly. Run this in your local Terminal:

```
openssl req -in yourcsr.csr -noout -text
```

Substitute `yourcsr.csr` with your file. Or just use an online tool, like [this one](/https://www.sslshopper.com/csr-decoder.html).


#### Convert an existing key to RSA format

If you already have a private key and it begins with `----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY----` you need to convert it to the RSA format, using:

```bash
openssl rsa -in {{app-name}}.key -out {{app-name}}.rsa.key
# writing RSA key
```

The RSA format is required by our TLS implementation.

#### Finding the right Certificate Authority provider

Unsure from where to book your certificate? Most Certificate Authority provider look slightly dusty, but they do the job: [namecheap SSL certs](https://www.namecheap.com/security/ssl-certificates.aspx), [DigiCert](https://www.digicert.com/), [Thawte](https://www.thawte.com/), [GeoTrust](https://www.geotrust.com/), [SSLs](https://www.ssls.com/). We have NO business relations here.


#### Renewing certificates

Remember that certificates are usually only valid for one year. So you need to re-purchase a new certificate from your provider and re-install it with your App, when using Custom HTTPS . The steps are the same as described above.


## Using TLS/HTTPS

The following practical tips on how to deal with HTTPS are applying to all TLS options on fortrabbit:

### Redirect all requests to HTTPS

There is no need for your application to be reached over a non-secure connection. It is recommended to forward all requests to the secure line. To establish this, create or modify the `.htaccess` file in your root path folder like so:

```plain
RewriteEngine On
RewriteCond %{HTTP:X-Forwarded-Port} !=443
RewriteRule (.*) https://%{HTTP_HOST}/$1 [R=301,L]
```

The reverse (redirect all traffic to HTTP) would be:

```plain
RewriteEngine On
RewriteCond %{HTTP:X-Forwarded-Port} !=80
RewriteRule (.*) http://%{HTTP_HOST}/$1 [R=301,L]
```

Please note the x-header part. Other code snippets you have pasted from elsewhere might not work here. Many CMS and frameworks are offering convenient settings and configurations for this.

### Force HTTPS for future visits with HSTS

This goes one step further than just forwarding requests, it tells the browser to not ever again accept any connection in the future on not secured domain to your App. In your `.htaccess` file you can add this line (in addition to the rewrite rule above):

```plain
Header always set Strict-Transport-Security "max-age=31536000"
```

This will make your browser remember to always use the secured version of your App. It makes use of the "[HTTP Strict Transport Security](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Strict_Transport_Security)" policy and improves security by eliminating the risks of man-in-the-middle TLS-protocol-downgrade attacks. Be careful: setting this header will tell the browser never (or that is: until max-age) to use `http://` again. So if you later on decide to serve (parts of) your site using no encryption, all those clients (browsers) which saw the header will not comply and keep using `https://`.


### Secure your domain with a CAA

A Certification Authority Authorization (CAA) is a DNS record to specify which certificate authorities (CAs) are allowed to issue certificates for a domain. It's an extra security layer, so that now one else can intercept any certificates by wrong authorities. There is no integration here on fortrabbit needed. See if your DNS / domain provider support CAA entries, set the according identifying domain name. When you are using our free Let's Encrypt certs, see [this article](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/caa/) on how to set it up.


## Troubleshooting TLS

Sometimes it just doesn't work as supposed to. Don't panic. You can of course always ask us for support. Here are some things you can do on your own:

### You see a certificate warning 

You visit your Apps domain under the `https://` address and the browser throws an error that the certificate can't be verified. This happens, when the domain is brand new and the cert is not YET installed (can take up to 24 hours). In this case, please wait a little. This can also happen, when your domain is not routed to fortrabbit (YET), only domains that are already routed to fortrabbit will receive a Let's Encrypt cert. Please the domain settings in the Dashboard.

### Cert is installed but browser bar is not green

In most cases this is due to "**mixed content**", which means, the cert is installed and everything is working, but your website is requesting external resources over non-secure addresses (http). Check the source code of your website and find and replace all `http:` requests. You can use `https://` instead or you just leave out the protocol entirely like so: `//`. The last method will use whatever has been used before, so that works especially well, with different environments, for instance when your local development machine doesn't have TLS.

### It's not working with Internet Explorer 8 or older

Sorry, IE8 is not supported any more. All our TLS implementations are based on SNI.

### Solve SSL verification errors

This is the fix for verification errors when using ssl_verify. If you are receiving an error like the following:

```
error:14090086:SSL routines:SSL3_GET_SERVER_CERTIFICATE:certificate verify failed
```
You need to set the `capath` as well. Assuming you are using PHP streams, it would look like this:
```php
$context = stream_context_create();
stream_context_set_option($context, 'ssl', 'verify_peer', true);
stream_context_set_option($context, 'ssl', 'capath', '/etc/ssl/certs'); # <<< that's the one
stream_context_set_option($context, 'ssl', 'allow_self_signed', false);

$fp = stream_socket_client("thedomain.tld:443", $errno, $errstr, 5, STREAM_CLIENT_CONNECT, $context);
# ..
if (stream_socket_enable_crypto($fp, true, STREAM_CRYPTO_METHOD_SSLv3_CLIENT) === false) {
    die("Failed to verify certificate");
}
#...
```

For cURL, the option CURLOPT_CAPATH needs to be set to `/etc/ssl/certs`.

Commit message:

added note that CAA also can become a problem

docs/https.md, after:

---

template:      article
reviewed:      2018-06-11
title:         Using HTTPS with fortrabbit
naviTitle:     HTTPS on fortrabbit
excerpt:       All about HTTPS and TLS.
lead:          Criminals and goverment agencies are trying to read your Apps communication. Better serve all requests over HTTPS for extended privacy. 
group:         platform
stack:         all

keywords:
    - ssl
    - TLS
    - domain
    - subdomain
    - CA
    - Certificate Authority
    - port 443
    - port 80

---


**TLDR;** Free and zero-config SSL certificates for all domains are provided, nothing you have to take care of. Read on if you want to learn about advanced options.


## About HTTPS, TLS & SSL

`HTTPS` is **H**yper **T**ext **T**ransfer **P**rotocol over Transport Layer **S**ecurity. It is used to secure the data transport between a client (browser) and a server. HTTPS is based on **TLS** (Transport Layer Security), which is the successor to the still better known **SSL** (Secure Sockets Layer). 

Current browsers show a green lock in the address bar if the connection is over HTTPS, the certificate could be verified and if the certificate is still valid. Google is promoting "https everywhere" (snakeoil), your SEO pagerank might benefit from using HTTPS.

## HTTPS options on fortrabbit

As part of [security efforts](/security) our aim is to give you secure, still easy-to-use and affordable options. Available with all Apps on fortrabbit:

### 1. Piggyback HTTPS

That's the most easiest and most obvious way to quickly run your App on https. You can already access your [App URL](app#toc-app-url) using HTTPS. For example: `https://{{app-name}}.frb.io`. Use this URL for testing or if a custom domain is not important to you.

### 2. Automatic HTTPS

[Let's Encrypt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Let's_Encrypt) is a free certificate authority and can be used to generate free certificates for custom domains. The Automatic HTTPS feature is included for all fortrabbit Apps: All domains correctly added and routed will receive an SSL certificate by Let's Encrypt, no configuration or extra setup required. The certs will also be renewed automatically. This option does not work for wildcard domains (yet).

### 3. Custom HTTPS

Bring your own certificate: There are various use-cases to mandate a custom certificate, for example if you plan on using wildcard domains or need a green browser bar with your name > using a [higher trusted](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extended_Validation_Certificate) commercial certificate.

#### How use Custom HTTPS

The roadmap to setup TLS custom reads like so:

1. have an external [domain](domains) registered with your fortrabbit App
2. create a key and a certificate request locally (see below)
3. using the certificate request: purchase an TLS/SSL cert from a third party CA
4. (book the TLS component for your App in the Dashboard) < Pro App only
5. upload your key and cert(s) to the Dashboard
6. route all your (sub)domains to your App

#### Create a new key and certificate

To obtain a certificate, you first must create a certificate signing request (CSR). With the newly generated CSR, you can go to an external certificate vendor, which will issue a certificate for you. For Mac/Linux you can use `openssl` from the the command line like so:

```bash
openssl req -new -nodes -keyout {{app-name}}.key -out {{app-name}}.csr -newkey rsa:2048
# Generating a 2048 bit RSA private key
# ..........................................................................................++
# .............................................+++
# writing new private key to '{{app-name}}.key'
# -----
# You are about to be asked to enter information that will be incorporated
# into your certificate request.
# What you are about to enter is what is called a Distinguished Name or a DN.
# There are quite a few fields but you can leave some blank
# For some fields there will be a default value,
# If you enter '.', the field will be left blank.
# -----
# Country Name (2 letter code) [AU]:DE
# State or Province Name (full name) [Some-State]:Berlin
# Locality Name (eg, city) []:Berlin
# Organization Name (eg, company) [Internet Widgits Pty Ltd]:fortrabbit
# Organizational Unit Name (eg, section) []:Website
# Common Name (e.g. server FQDN or YOUR name) []:www.fortrabbit.com
# Email Address []:info@fortrabbit.com
# -----
# Please enter the following 'extra' attributes
# to be sent with your certificate request
# A challenge password []:
# An optional company name []

# Update key format
openssl rsa -in {{app-name}}.key -out {{app-name}}.rsa.key
```

Do not enter a password! Also: if you plan on using `www.yourdomain.tld`, don't miss the `www.` in the "Common Name"! When you have a wildcard domain, use `*domain.tld` as the Common Name.

#### Checking your CSR

You can decode the created CSR file to make sure did it correctly. Run this in your local Terminal:

```
openssl req -in yourcsr.csr -noout -text
```

Substitute `yourcsr.csr` with your file. Or just use an online tool, like [this one](/https://www.sslshopper.com/csr-decoder.html).


#### Convert an existing key to RSA format

If you already have a private key and it begins with `----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY----` you need to convert it to the RSA format, using:

```bash
openssl rsa -in {{app-name}}.key -out {{app-name}}.rsa.key
# writing RSA key
```

The RSA format is required by our TLS implementation.

#### Finding the right Certificate Authority provider

Unsure from where to book your certificate? Most Certificate Authority provider look slightly dusty, but they do the job: [namecheap SSL certs](https://www.namecheap.com/security/ssl-certificates.aspx), [DigiCert](https://www.digicert.com/), [Thawte](https://www.thawte.com/), [GeoTrust](https://www.geotrust.com/), [SSLs](https://www.ssls.com/). We have NO business relations here.


#### Renewing certificates

Remember that certificates are usually only valid for one year. So you need to re-purchase a new certificate from your provider and re-install it with your App, when using Custom HTTPS . The steps are the same as described above.


## Using TLS/HTTPS

The following practical tips on how to deal with HTTPS are applying to all TLS options on fortrabbit:

### Redirect all requests to HTTPS

There is no need for your application to be reached over a non-secure connection. It is recommended to forward all requests to the secure line. To establish this, create or modify the `.htaccess` file in your root path folder like so:

```plain
RewriteEngine On
RewriteCond %{HTTP:X-Forwarded-Port} !=443
RewriteRule (.*) https://%{HTTP_HOST}/$1 [R=301,L]
```

The reverse (redirect all traffic to HTTP) would be:

```plain
RewriteEngine On
RewriteCond %{HTTP:X-Forwarded-Port} !=80
RewriteRule (.*) http://%{HTTP_HOST}/$1 [R=301,L]
```

Please note the x-header part. Other code snippets you have pasted from elsewhere might not work here. Many CMS and frameworks are offering convenient settings and configurations for this.

### Force HTTPS for future visits with HSTS

This goes one step further than just forwarding requests, it tells the browser to not ever again accept any connection in the future on not secured domain to your App. In your `.htaccess` file you can add this line (in addition to the rewrite rule above):

```plain
Header always set Strict-Transport-Security "max-age=31536000"
```

This will make your browser remember to always use the secured version of your App. It makes use of the "[HTTP Strict Transport Security](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Strict_Transport_Security)" policy and improves security by eliminating the risks of man-in-the-middle TLS-protocol-downgrade attacks. Be careful: setting this header will tell the browser never (or that is: until max-age) to use `http://` again. So if you later on decide to serve (parts of) your site using no encryption, all those clients (browsers) which saw the header will not comply and keep using `https://`.


### Secure your domain with a CAA record

A Certification Authority Authorization (CAA) is a DNS record to specify which certificate authorities (CAs) are allowed to issue certificates for a domain. It's an extra security layer, so that now one else can intercept any certificates by wrong authorities. There is no integration here on fortrabbit needed. See if your DNS / domain provider supports CAA entries, set the according identifying domain name. When you are using our free Let's Encrypt certs, see [this article](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/caa/) on how to set it up. Mind that already existing CAA entries can also become a problem when trying to issue new certificates. 


## Troubleshooting TLS

Sometimes it just doesn't work as supposed to. Don't panic. You can of course always ask us for support. Here are some things you can do on your own:

### You see a certificate warning 

You visit your Apps domain under the `https://` address and the browser throws an error that the certificate can't be verified. This happens, when the domain is brand new and the cert is not YET installed (can take up to 24 hours). In this case, please wait a little. This can also happen, when your domain is not routed to fortrabbit (YET), only domains that are already routed to fortrabbit will receive a Let's Encrypt cert. Please the domain settings in the Dashboard.

### Cert is installed but browser bar is not green

In most cases this is due to "**mixed content**", which means, the cert is installed and everything is working, but your website is requesting external resources over non-secure addresses (http). Check the source code of your website and find and replace all `http:` requests. You can use `https://` instead or you just leave out the protocol entirely like so: `//`. The last method will use whatever has been used before, so that works especially well, with different environments, for instance when your local development machine doesn't have TLS.

### It's not working with Internet Explorer 8 or older

Sorry, IE8 is not supported any more. All our TLS implementations are based on SNI.

### Solve SSL verification errors

This is the fix for verification errors when using ssl_verify. If you are receiving an error like the following:

```
error:14090086:SSL routines:SSL3_GET_SERVER_CERTIFICATE:certificate verify failed
```
You need to set the `capath` as well. Assuming you are using PHP streams, it would look like this:
```php
$context = stream_context_create();
stream_context_set_option($context, 'ssl', 'verify_peer', true);
stream_context_set_option($context, 'ssl', 'capath', '/etc/ssl/certs'); # <<< that's the one
stream_context_set_option($context, 'ssl', 'allow_self_signed', false);

$fp = stream_socket_client("thedomain.tld:443", $errno, $errstr, 5, STREAM_CLIENT_CONNECT, $context);
# ..
if (stream_socket_enable_crypto($fp, true, STREAM_CRYPTO_METHOD_SSLv3_CLIENT) === false) {
    die("Failed to verify certificate");
}
#...
```

For cURL, the option CURLOPT_CAPATH needs to be set to `/etc/ssl/certs`.
