docs/install-symfony-4-uni.md, before:

---

template:         article
reviewed:         2018-02-20
title:            Install Symfony 4
naviTitle:        Symfony 4
lead:             Symfony has been around for some while — but it doesn't look old. Learn how to install and tune Symfony 4 on fortrabbit.

group:            Install_guides
stack:            uni

workInProgress: true

websiteLink:      http://symfony.com/?utm_source=fortrabbit
websiteLinkText:  symfony.com
category:         framework
image:            symfony-mark.png
version:          4.0

---


## Get ready

We assume you've already created a new App and chose Symfony in the stack chooser. If not: You can do so in the [fortrabbit Dashboard](/dashboard). You should also have a [PHP development environment](/local-development) running on your local machine.


### Root path

If you haven't chosen Symfony stack when creating the App in the Dashboard at first, please set the following: Go to the Dashboard and [set the root path](/app#toc-root-path) of your App's domains to **public**.

<div markdown="1" data-user="known">
[Change the root path for App URL of App: **{{app-name}}**](https://dashboard.fortrabbit.com/apps/{{app-name}}/rootpath)
</div>

### ENV vars

Symfony 4 [environments](https://symfony.com/doc/current/configuration/environments.html#executing-an-application-in-different-environments) are controlled by the `APP_ENV` ENV var. You can even use ENV vars in the .yml configurations now. To get you started quickly, we provide you with the following ENV vars by default when you have chosen the Symfony from the Software chooser when creating the App:

```osterei32
APP_ENV=prod
APP_DEBUG=0
APP_SECRET=ClickToGenerate
DATABASE_URL=mysql://${MYSQL_USER}:${MYSQL_PASSWORD}@${MYSQL_HOST}/${MYSQL_DATABASE}
```

Within the Dashboard under your App settings you can modify the ENV vars. Modify `APP_DEBUG` or `APP_ENV` to change the behavior of your application. You can also define your own key-value-pairs and use them in your configuration files. 

<div markdown="1" data-user="known">
[Go to ENV vars for the App: **{{app-name}}**](https://dashboard.fortrabbit.com/apps/{{app-name}}/vars)
</div>


## Quick start

If your project is not under git version control yet, follow these steps to be prepared for your first `git push`. 

```bash
# 1. Change into the project folder
$ cd my-project

# 2. Initialize a local Git repo
$ git init .

# 3. Add all files
$ git add -A

# 4. Commit files for the first time
$ git commit -m 'Initial'

# 5. Add fortrabbit as a remote
$ git remote add fortrabbit {{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com:{{app-name}}.git

# 6. Push changes to fortrabbit
$ git push -u fortrabbit master
```

**Got an error?** Please see the [access troubleshooting](/access-methods#toc-troubleshooting). **Did it work?** Cool! This first push can take a bit, since all the Composer packages need to be installed. When the push is done you can visit your App URL in the browser and see the Symfony welcome screen:

* [{{app-name}}.frb.io](https://{{app-name}}.frb.io)


## Database setup and migration

Until now you just deployed some code. It needs some more tinkering to make it yours.



### MySQL config

The `DATABASE_URL` ENV var stores all DB access information already (see above). You just need to use it in your `doctrine.yaml` config, like in the example below:  

```yaml
doctrine:
    dbal:
        # All in one single line (default)
        url: '%env(DATABASE_URL)%'
        
```

### Doctrine & symfony console

Once doctrine is configured and the changes are deployed, you may want to create the DB schema, run migrations or load fixtures. You don't need to ssh in to your App, instead you can fire single commands like so:

```
{{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com 'php bin/console doctrine:schema:create'
{{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com 'php bin/console doctrine:fixtures:load'
```

## Webpack Encore

We assume you use Encore to manage your css/js assets and `node` and `yarn` is configured in local environment already.

### Configuration

In your `webpack.config.js` define different locations of the build - `prod` and `dev`.  

```js
var Encore = require('@symfony/webpack-encore');
var env = Encore.isProduction() ? 'prod' : 'dev';

Encore
    .setOutputPath('public/build/' + env)
    .setPublicPath('/build/' + env)
    .setManifestKeyPrefix('build')
    // ...
    .enableVersioning(true)
;

module.exports = Encore.getWebpackConfig();
```

Tell the application where to find the `manifest.json` - again for `prod` and `dev`.

```yml
# config/package/prod/framework.yaml
framework:
    assets:
        json_manifest_path: '%kernel.project_dir%/public/prod/build/manifest.json'

```
```yml
# config/package/dev/framework.yaml
framework:
    assets:
        json_manifest_path: '%kernel.project_dir%/public/dev/build/manifest.json'

```

### Deploying assets

Compiled assets should not be under version control. So, instead of committing the build files to git, we need to deploy them differently.
Rsync works great for this and it's easier than you might think.

```bash
# Build production assets locally 
$ yarn run encore production

# Deploy the build/prod folder
$ rsync -av ./public/build/prod {{app-name}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com:~/public/build/prod/
```


## Advanced configurations



### Logging

You can always access any log files your App is writes on the file system. If you want to use [live logging](logging#toc-live-log-access), then you should configure Symfony to use `error_log`. Modify the `config/packages/prod/framework.yml` file:

``` yml
monolog:
    # ..
    handlers:
        # ..
        nested:
            type:  error_log
            # ..
```

### Sending mail

You can not use [sendmail](quirks#toc-mailing) on fortrabbit but you can use the `Swiftmailer`. Configure it in your `config/packages/swiftmailer.yaml` file and provide the `MAILER_URL` ENV var in Dashboard.

``` yml
swiftmailer:
    url: '%env(MAILER_URL)%'
    spool: { type: 'memory' }
```

Commit message:

Symfony 4 small details + streamlining git deploy (initial)

docs/install-symfony-4-uni.md, after:

---

template:         article
reviewed:         2018-02-20
title:            Install Symfony 4
naviTitle:        Symfony 4
lead:             Symfony has been around for some while — but it doesn't look old. Learn how to install and tune Symfony 4 on fortrabbit.

group:            Install_guides
stack:            uni

workInProgress: true

websiteLink:      http://symfony.com/?utm_source=fortrabbit
websiteLinkText:  symfony.com
category:         framework
image:            symfony-mark.png
version:          4.0

---


## Get ready

We assume you've already created a new App and chose Symfony in the stack chooser. If not: You can do so in the [fortrabbit Dashboard](/dashboard). You should also have a [PHP development environment](/local-development) running on your local machine.


### Root path

If you haven't chosen Symfony stack when creating the App in the Dashboard at first, please set the following: Go to the Dashboard and [set the root path](/app#toc-root-path) of your App's domains to **public**.

<div markdown="1" data-user="known">
[Change the root path for App URL of App: **{{app-name}}**](https://dashboard.fortrabbit.com/apps/{{app-name}}/rootpath)
</div>

### ENV vars

Symfony 4 [environments](https://symfony.com/doc/current/configuration/environments.html#executing-an-application-in-different-environments) are controlled by the `APP_ENV` ENV var. You can even use ENV vars in the .yml configurations now. To get you started quickly, we provide you with the following ENV vars by default when you have chosen the Symfony from the Software chooser when creating the App:

```osterei32
APP_ENV=prod
APP_DEBUG=0
APP_SECRET=ClickToGenerate
DATABASE_URL=mysql://${MYSQL_USER}:${MYSQL_PASSWORD}@${MYSQL_HOST}/${MYSQL_DATABASE}
```

Within the Dashboard under your App settings you can modify the ENV vars. Modify `APP_DEBUG` or `APP_ENV` to change the behavior of your application. You can also define your own key-value-pairs and use them in your configuration files. 

<div markdown="1" data-user="known">
[Go to ENV vars for the App: **{{app-name}}**](https://dashboard.fortrabbit.com/apps/{{app-name}}/vars)
</div>


## Quick start

If your project is not under git version control yet, follow these steps to be prepared for your first `git push`. 

```bash
# 1. Change into the project folder
$ cd my-project

# 2. Initialize a local Git repo
$ git init .

# 3. Add all files
$ git add -A

# 4. Commit files for the first time
$ git commit -m 'Initial'

# 5. Add fortrabbit as a remote
$ git remote add fortrabbit {{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com:{{app-name}}.git

# 6. Initial push and set upstream
$ git push -u fortrabbit master
# Lot's of output

# 7. From there on only
$ git push
```

**Got an error?** Please see the [access troubleshooting](/access-methods#toc-troubleshooting). **Did it work?** Cool! This first push can take a bit, since all the Composer packages need to be installed. When the first push is done you can visit your App URL in the browser and see the Symfony welcome screen:

* [{{app-name}}.frb.io](https://{{app-name}}.frb.io)


## MySQL

Until now you just deployed some code. It needs some more tinkering to make it yours.

### Configuration

The `DATABASE_URL` ENV var stores all DB access information already (see [above](#toc-env-vars)). You just need to use it in `doctrine.yaml` like so:  

```yaml
doctrine:
    dbal:
        # All in one single line (default)
        url: '%env(DATABASE_URL)%'
        
```

### Doctrine & symfony console

Once doctrine is configured and the changes are deployed, you may want to create the DB schema, run migrations or load fixtures. You can login via [ssh](ssh) in to your App, or instead just fire single commands like so:

```
{{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com 'php bin/console doctrine:schema:create'
{{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com 'php bin/console doctrine:fixtures:load'
```

## Webpack Encore

We assume you are using Encore to manage your css/js assets and `yarn` is configured in the local environment already. 

### Configuration

In your `webpack.config.js` define different locations of the build - `prod` and `dev`:

```js
var Encore = require('@symfony/webpack-encore');
var env = Encore.isProduction() ? 'prod' : 'dev';

Encore
    .setOutputPath('public/build/' + env)
    .setPublicPath('/build/' + env)
    .setManifestKeyPrefix('build')
    // ...
    .enableVersioning(true)
;

module.exports = Encore.getWebpackConfig();
```

Tell the application where to find the `manifest.json` - again for `prod` and `dev`:

```yml
# config/package/prod/framework.yaml
framework:
    assets:
        json_manifest_path: '%kernel.project_dir%/public/prod/build/manifest.json'
```

```yml
# config/package/dev/framework.yaml
framework:
    assets:
        json_manifest_path: '%kernel.project_dir%/public/dev/build/manifest.json'
```

### Deploying assets

Compiled assets should not be under version control. So, instead of committing the build files to Git, you deploy them separately. rsync works great for this and it's easier than you might think:

```bash
# Build production assets locally 
$ yarn run encore production

# Deploy the build/prod folder
$ rsync -av ./public/build/prod {{app-name}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com:~/public/build/prod/
```


## Advanced configurations

Still reading? Let's go on:

### Logging

You can access all log files your App writes on the file system. If you want to use [live logging](logging#toc-live-log-access), then you should configure Symfony to use `error_log`. Modify the `config/packages/prod/framework.yml` file:

``` yml
monolog:
    # ..
    handlers:
        # ..
        nested:
            type:  error_log
            # ..
```

### Sending mail

You can not use [sendmail](quirks#toc-mailing) on fortrabbit but you can use the `Swiftmailer`. Configure it in your `config/packages/swiftmailer.yaml` file and provide the `MAILER_URL` ENV var in Dashboard.

``` yml
swiftmailer:
    url: '%env(MAILER_URL)%'
    spool: { type: 'memory' }
```
