docs/install-slim-framework-3.md, before:

---

template:         article
reviewed:         2016-07-25
title:            Install Slim Framework 3
naviTitle:        Slim Framework
group:            Install_guides
lead:             Slim is a PHP micro framework that helps you write simple web applications and APIs quickly. Learn how to install and tune Slim v3 on fortrabbit.

websiteLink:      http://www.slimframework.com/?utm_source=fortrabbit
websiteLinkText:  slimframework.com
category:         micro framework
image:            slim-logo.png
version:          3

otherVersionLinks:
    - install-slim-framework-2

tags:
    - php
    - install

---


## Get ready

We assume you've already created an [App](app) with fortrabbit. You also need a local Slim framework installation. Slim framework is extremely easy to setup thanks to our Composer support. You can either use an existing or a new one. This guide explains you how to start locally from scratch. 


## Install

Execute locally in your terminal:

```bash
# clone your fortrabbit app
$ git clone {{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com:{{app-name}} {{app-name}}

# change into the App directory
$ cd {{app-name}}

# install slim via composer (currently unstalble, hence the @dev)
$ composer require slim/slim "3.*@dev"
```

Now just create your first hello world `index.php` file containing:

```php
<?php

include __DIR__. '/vendor/autoload.php';

$app = new \Slim\App;
$app->get('/hello/{name}', function ($request, $response, $args) {
    return $response->write("Hello " . $args['name']);
});
$app->run();
```

You also want to create an `.htaccess` file, so you have nice URLs:

```
RewriteEngine On
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-f
RewriteRule ^ index.php [QSA,L]
```

Back in the terminal: 

```bash
# create a `.gitignore` file to exclude the `vendor/` folder:
$ echo vendor/ > .gitignore

# ———— Deploy ————

# add everything to git
$ git add -A

# create an initial commit
$ git ci -am 'Initial'

# push and remember the remote
$ git push -u origin master
```

That's it. You can see the hello-world in the browser:  
[https://{{app-name}}.frb.io/hello/world](https://{{app-name}}.frb.io/hello/world)

Commit message:

added links to local dev, local development article now ready - please review

docs/install-slim-framework-3.md, after:

---

template:         article
reviewed:         2016-07-25
title:            Install Slim Framework 3
naviTitle:        Slim Framework
group:            Install_guides
lead:             Slim is a PHP micro framework that helps you write simple web applications and APIs quickly. Learn how to install and tune Slim v3 on fortrabbit.

websiteLink:      http://www.slimframework.com/?utm_source=fortrabbit
websiteLinkText:  slimframework.com
category:         micro framework
image:            slim-logo.png
version:          3

otherVersionLinks:
    - install-slim-framework-2

tags:
    - php
    - install

---


## Get ready

We assume you've already created an [App](app) with fortrabbit. You might also have a [PHP development environment](/local-development) running on your local machine. You also need a local Slim framework installation. Slim framework is extremely easy to setup thanks to our Composer support. You can either use an existing or a new one. This guide explains you how to start locally from scratch. 


## Install

Execute locally in your terminal:

```bash
# clone your fortrabbit app
$ git clone {{ssh-user}}@deploy.{{region}}.frbit.com:{{app-name}} {{app-name}}

# change into the App directory
$ cd {{app-name}}

# install slim via composer (currently unstalble, hence the @dev)
$ composer require slim/slim "3.*@dev"
```

Now just create your first hello world `index.php` file containing:

```php
<?php

include __DIR__. '/vendor/autoload.php';

$app = new \Slim\App;
$app->get('/hello/{name}', function ($request, $response, $args) {
    return $response->write("Hello " . $args['name']);
});
$app->run();
```

You also want to create an `.htaccess` file, so you have nice URLs:

```
RewriteEngine On
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-f
RewriteRule ^ index.php [QSA,L]
```

Back in the terminal: 

```bash
# create a `.gitignore` file to exclude the `vendor/` folder:
$ echo vendor/ > .gitignore

# ———— Deploy ————

# add everything to git
$ git add -A

# create an initial commit
$ git ci -am 'Initial'

# push and remember the remote
$ git push -u origin master
```

That's it. You can see the hello-world in the browser:  
[https://{{app-name}}.frb.io/hello/world](https://{{app-name}}.frb.io/hello/world)
