docs/redis-cloud.md, before:

---

template:         article
naviTitle:        Redis Cloud
reviewed:         2017-12-20
title:            Using Redis Cloud with fortrabbit
group:            Databases
section:          Extending_fortrabbit
stack:            all

dontList:         true
deprecated:       true

websiteLink:      https://redislabs.com/redis-cloud?utm_source=fortrabbit
websiteLinkText:  redislabs.com/redis-cloud
dataCenters:      US, EU
image:            redis-cloud-logo.png

---

## About Redis

Redis is an open-source in-memory key-value storage software. Redis is newer and sexier than [Memcache](memcache-pro).

## About Redis Cloud

Redis Labs is a popular hosted Redis provider. They also support the open-source project. Redis Labs offer a public cloud model: it's called "Redis Cloud" and brings "Fully-Managed Redis-as-a-Service".


## Pricing

It starts with a free plan which you can scale vertically by size (amount of available memory) and horizontally (going high available with multi-az). See the [Redis Cloud pricing page](https://redislabs.com/pricing?utm_source=fortrabbit).



## Signing Up

The sign up is supremely simple and takes only a minute. All you need to do is fill in your name, email and choose a new password. Then click on the confirmation mail and you are in.



## Booking

Now you need to choose the Cloud (aka data center location) where your Redis will run. The best location depends on where your fortrabbit App runs:

* Europe: Choose `AWS/eu-west-1`
* USA: Choose `AWS/us-east-1`

Now you need to decide upon which availability level you want to subscribe: "Standard" is cheaper and "Multi-AZ" grants higher availability. So if you are using mainly Production level plans on fortrabbit your best choice is "Multi-AZ". Size the plan according to your requirements. Since you can upgrade later one we recommend to start small.

In the next step you can name your resource (aka Redis server). Our recommended naming scheme is `frbit-your-app-ame`. Also setup a good password, which, of course, should differ from your login password.



## Connecting

When your subscription becomes available (you can see the status in the Redis Labs control panel) you will get an "Endpoint", which consists of a hostname and a port. For example: `pub-redis-12345.us-east-1-3.7.ec2.redislabs.com:12345`. The first part `pub-redis...redislabs.com` is the hostname and the last part `12345` is the port.

We recommend to stash those information in your App's [secrets](secrets). Go to the fortrabbit Dasboard > Your App > Settings > App Secrets and add:

```plain
# the hostname and port you got
REDIS_HOST=pub-redis-12345.us-east-1-3.7.ec2.redislabs.com
REDIS_PORT=12345

# the password you chose
REDIS_PASSWORD=your-password
```

Now you can use Redis Cloud in general. To use Redis Cloud from your fortrabbit App you need to do two more things:

### 1. Request a firewall whitelisting

By default all outgoing calls to non-standard ports from your fortrabbit App are blocked for [security](security) reasons. But you can request the fortrabbit team to open up any port for you. That doesn't take long and isn't complicated.

Login to the fortrabbit Dashboard, navigate to your App > Settings > Firewall whitelist and request a custom firewall rule. Write nothing under the optional IP field and insert the port you got from Redis Labs in the Port field. As descriptions we suggest "Redis Cloud on Redis Labs" or the like. Once your request has been approved, which usually takes not very long, you are ready to use your new Redis database!

### 2. Enable the PHP extension

While you are logged in the Dashboard, navigate to your App > Settings > PHP and enable the `redis` extension.


## Using Redis Cloud

Redis is supported by many PHP frameworks and CMS out of the box. The first thing you should do is add your redis credentials into your App's secrets. For specific integrations check out the [install guides](/#install-guides) and find out how to use it with your favorite framework or CMS.

Commit message:

Add a word about persistent connection

docs/redis-cloud.md, after:

---

template:         article
naviTitle:        Redis Cloud
reviewed:         2017-12-20
title:            Using Redis Cloud with fortrabbit
group:            Databases
section:          Extending_fortrabbit
stack:            all

dontList:         true
deprecated:       true

websiteLink:      https://redislabs.com/redis-cloud?utm_source=fortrabbit
websiteLinkText:  redislabs.com/redis-cloud
dataCenters:      US, EU
image:            redis-cloud-logo.png

---

## About Redis

Redis is an open-source in-memory key-value storage software. Redis is newer and sexier than [Memcache](memcache-pro).

## About Redis Cloud

Redis Labs is a popular hosted Redis provider. They also support the open-source project. Redis Labs offer a public cloud model: it's called "Redis Cloud" and brings "Fully-Managed Redis-as-a-Service".


## Pricing

It starts with a free plan which you can scale vertically by size (amount of available memory) and horizontally (going high available with multi-az). See the [Redis Cloud pricing page](https://redislabs.com/pricing?utm_source=fortrabbit).



## Signing Up

The sign up is supremely simple and takes only a minute. All you need to do is fill in your name, email and choose a new password. Then click on the confirmation mail and you are in.



## Booking

Now you need to choose the Cloud (aka data center location) where your Redis will run. The best location depends on where your fortrabbit App runs:

* Europe: Choose `AWS/eu-west-1`
* USA: Choose `AWS/us-east-1`

Now you need to decide upon which availability level you want to subscribe: "Standard" is cheaper and "Multi-AZ" grants higher availability. So if you are using mainly Production level plans on fortrabbit your best choice is "Multi-AZ". Size the plan according to your requirements. Since you can upgrade later one we recommend to start small.

In the next step you can name your resource (aka Redis server). Our recommended naming scheme is `frbit-your-app-ame`. Also setup a good password, which, of course, should differ from your login password.



## Connecting

When your subscription becomes available (you can see the status in the Redis Labs control panel) you will get an "Endpoint", which consists of a hostname and a port. For example: `pub-redis-12345.us-east-1-3.7.ec2.redislabs.com:12345`. The first part `pub-redis...redislabs.com` is the hostname and the last part `12345` is the port.

We recommend to stash those information in your App's [secrets](secrets). Go to the fortrabbit Dasboard > Your App > Settings > App Secrets and add:

```plain
# the hostname and port you got
REDIS_HOST=pub-redis-12345.us-east-1-3.7.ec2.redislabs.com
REDIS_PORT=12345

# the password you chose
REDIS_PASSWORD=your-password
```

Now you can use Redis Cloud in general. To use Redis Cloud from your fortrabbit App you need to do two more things:

### 1. Request a firewall whitelisting

By default all outgoing calls to non-standard ports from your fortrabbit App are blocked for [security](security) reasons. But you can request the fortrabbit team to open up any port for you. That doesn't take long and isn't complicated.

Login to the fortrabbit Dashboard, navigate to your App > Settings > Firewall whitelist and request a custom firewall rule. Write nothing under the optional IP field and insert the port you got from Redis Labs in the Port field. As descriptions we suggest "Redis Cloud on Redis Labs" or the like. Once your request has been approved, which usually takes not very long, you are ready to use your new Redis database!

### 2. Enable the PHP extension

While you are logged in the Dashboard, navigate to your App > Settings > PHP and enable the `redis` extension.
Some options can be passed while creating a connection to redis, through the php redis extension. As [advised in the official documentation](https://github.com/phpredis/phpredis#php-session-handler<Paste>), you should prefer using a persistent connection by adding a `persistent` option set to `1`.


## Using Redis Cloud

Redis is supported by many PHP frameworks and CMS out of the box. The first thing you should do is add your redis credentials into your App's secrets. For specific integrations check out the [install guides](/#install-guides) and find out how to use it with your favorite framework or CMS.
