docs/remote-ssh-execution.md, before:

---

template:      article
reviewed:      2016-06-03
naviTitle:     Remote SSH execution
title:         Using remote SSH commands
group:         Kitchen_sink

seeAlsoLinks:
    - deployment
    - git
    - ssh-keys
    - logging

otherVersionLinks:
    - ssh-sftp-old-app

tags:
    - git
    - advanced

---


## Problem

With fortrabbit you [deploy with Git](/deployment). But sometimes SSH access to your App can be helpful as well. fortrabbit Apps have [ephemeral storage](quirks#toc-ephemeral-storage) and a horizontal scalable infrastructure. This allows great performance and grants high availability. One trade off is that full SSH access is not feasible.


## Solution

Remote SSH execution: run single commands remotely using the SSH remote exec protocol.


### Application scenarios

* Use CLI tools for tasks like database migration (see below)
* Use remote task runners like [Envoy](https://laravel.com/docs/master/envoy) (or [Gulp/SSH](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gulp-ssh))
* List files on remote: see what actually has been deployed
* Debug while developing your [Worker](/worker) and cron jobs
* Debug while developing your [pre/post deploy scripts](/deployment-file-v2#toc-full-schema)
* Execute arbitrary PHP scripts within your Apps
* …


## Usage

The main difference of the SSH remote exec to a "full SSH environment" is that you can only execute one command at once and that you specify the command to be executed with the SSH login command line. All you need to do is: prefix the command you want to execute remotely with the SSH login command. For example:

```
$ ssh your-app@deploy.eu2.frbit.com php script.php
# \                               / \             /
#  --------------|---------------    ------|------
#                v                         v
#      the ssh login command       the remote command
```

**Note I**: Unless otherwise specified by you all commands are executed from within `/srv/app/your-app/htdocs`, which is also the location to which your files are [deployed](/deployment). So if the script, you want to execute, is locally under `vendor/bin/foo` then you'd need to execute `ssh …frbit.com php vendor/bin/foo`. Check out the [directory structure](/directory-structure) for more information.

**Note II**: You must write the interpreter `php` before all PHP scripts, including CLIs like `artisan` or `app/console`, you want to execute. So `ssh …frbit.com php script.php` works and `ssh …frbit.com script.php` does not.

### Authentication

<!-- TODO: rewrite on password-username launch -->

For remote SSH execution you identify using your public SSH keys. If you get a connection error, please check if your SSH key setup is correct and if in doubt refer to our [SSH key troubleshooting guide](/ssh-keys).


### Using CLI tools

Many modern web development frameworks and CMS come with a programmable command line interfaces (CLI), Drupal Console and Artisan for example. These CLIs allow you to automate often occurring tasks, help you to develop your App via code generators and provide useful helpers to set up new installations. Executing commands, like database migration, can hugely simplify development.


### Limitations

**No persistent code manipulation**: Code changes made via remote SSH execution don't have any effect in your running App! This means: You can run a database migrate command, which changes the contents of your database and thereby has effect on your App. But: If your remote command actually modifies, creates or removes files, it will only be modified, created or removed from the "deployment Container" in which the SSH command was executed, not in the "Web Container", which is used to serve your App to the web. Also those changes will be undone with your next deploy. Hence: All code changes need to be made locally and then [committed and pushed via Git](/deployment).

**No uploads**: SFTP is not available. All code changes need to be made via [Git deployment](/deployment) due to [ephemeral storage](quirks#toc-ephemeral-storage).

**No concurrent usage**: To guarantee code consistency no deployments can be made while a remote SSH command is executing. For the same reasons parallel deployments and parallel SSH executions are not allowed.

**Limited execution time**: The maximal execution time for remote SSH commands is [limited](https://www.fortrabbit.com/specs#limits).

**No background execution**: Commands cannot be detached to the background. This means: When the command execution is finished and you are back on your local shell, then the remote command execution has terminated as well - whether there are still running detached processes or not.


### Examples

One line of code says more than 1000 pages of documentation:

#### Arbitrary PHP script

```bash
$ ssh your-app@deploy.eu2.frbit.com php my-script.php arg1 arg2
```

#### Laravel: artisan

Execute `some:command` using Laravels's `artisan` CLI:

```bash
$ ssh your-app@deploy.eu2.frbit.com php artisan some:command
```

Check out the [Laravel article](/install-laravel-5#toc-migrate-amp-other-database-commands) for more examples.

#### Symfony: console

Execute `some:command` using Symfony's `app/console` CLI:

```bash
$ ssh your-app@deploy.eu2.frbit.com php app/console some:command
```

#### Gulp/SSH

A simple example which executes `my-script.php` remotely and write it's output into local `logs/output.log` file. This is the `gulpfile.js`:

```js
'use strict'

var fs = require('fs'),
  gulp = require('gulp'),
  SSH  = require('gulp-ssh');

var config = {
  host:       'deploy.eu2.frbit.com',
  port:       22,
  username:   'your-app',
  privateKey: fs.readFileSync(process.env.HOME + '/.ssh/id_rsa')
};
var ssh = new SSH({ignoreErrors: false, sshConfig: config});

gulp.task('run-script', function() {
  return ssh
    .exec('php my-script.php some-arg', {filePath: 'output.log'})
    .pipe(gulp.dest('logs'));
});

```

Then run in your local terminal:

```bash
$ gulp run-script
```


## Advanced usage

Still reading, go ahead, dive deeper!

### Chaining

You can execute multiple commands at once by quoting everything and separating the commands with a semicolon:

```
# execute three scripts
$ ssh your-app@deploy.eu2.frbit.com "php foo.php ; php bar.php ; php baz.php"
```

### Aliases

On Mac and Linux: You can define local "aliases", which reduce the amount typing when executing a remote SSH command by a lot. For example:

```
# create the alias
$ alias artisan-my-app="ssh your-app@deploy.eu2.frbit.com php artisan"

# use the alias
$ artisan-my-app migrate
# this actuall calls "ssh your-app@deploy.eu2.frbit.com php artisan migrate"
```

To persist those aliases between shell sessions you need to add them to your shell profile file. Usually that is either `~/.profile`, `~/.zshrc` or `~/.bashrc`.

Commit message:

excerpt for remote ssh exec

docs/remote-ssh-execution.md, after:

---

template:      article
reviewed:      2016-06-09
naviTitle:     Remote SSH execution
title:         Using remote SSH commands
group:         Kitchen_sink
excerpt:       "How to run Artisan migrate and other useful commands."

seeAlsoLinks:
    - deployment
    - git
    - ssh-keys
    - logging
    - new-apps

otherVersionLinks:
    - ssh-sftp-old-app

tags:
    - git
    - advanced

---


## Problem

With fortrabbit you [deploy with Git](/deployment). But sometimes SSH access to your App can be helpful as well. fortrabbit Apps have [ephemeral storage](quirks#toc-ephemeral-storage) and a horizontal scalable infrastructure. This allows great performance and grants high availability. One trade off is that full SSH access is not feasible.


## Solution

Remote SSH execution: run single commands remotely using the SSH remote exec protocol.


### Application scenarios

* Use CLI tools for tasks like database migration (see below)
* Use remote task runners like [Envoy](https://laravel.com/docs/master/envoy) (or [Gulp/SSH](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gulp-ssh))
* List files on remote: see what actually has been deployed
* Debug while developing your [Worker](/worker) and cron jobs
* Debug while developing your [pre/post deploy scripts](/deployment-file-v2#toc-full-schema)
* Execute arbitrary PHP scripts within your Apps
* …


## Usage

The main difference of the SSH remote exec to a "full SSH environment" is that you can only execute one command at once and that you specify the command to be executed with the SSH login command line. All you need to do is: prefix the command you want to execute remotely with the SSH login command. For example:

```
$ ssh your-app@deploy.eu2.frbit.com php script.php
# \                               / \             /
#  --------------|---------------    ------|------
#                v                         v
#      the ssh login command       the remote command
```

**Note I**: Unless otherwise specified by you all commands are executed from within `/srv/app/your-app/htdocs`, which is also the location to which your files are [deployed](/deployment). So if the script, you want to execute, is locally under `vendor/bin/foo` then you'd need to execute `ssh …frbit.com php vendor/bin/foo`. Check out the [directory structure](/directory-structure) for more information.

**Note II**: You must write the interpreter `php` before all PHP scripts, including CLIs like `artisan` or `app/console`, you want to execute. So `ssh …frbit.com php script.php` works and `ssh …frbit.com script.php` does not.

### Authentication

<!-- TODO: rewrite on password-username launch -->

For remote SSH execution you identify using your public SSH keys. If you get a connection error, please check if your SSH key setup is correct and if in doubt refer to our [SSH key troubleshooting guide](/ssh-keys).


### Using CLI tools

Many modern web development frameworks and CMS come with a programmable command line interfaces (CLI), Drupal Console and Artisan for example. These CLIs allow you to automate often occurring tasks, help you to develop your App via code generators and provide useful helpers to set up new installations. Executing commands, like database migration, can hugely simplify development.


### Limitations

**No persistent code manipulation**: Code changes made via remote SSH execution don't have any effect in your running App! This means: You can run a database migrate command, which changes the contents of your database and thereby has effect on your App. But: If your remote command actually modifies, creates or removes files, it will only be modified, created or removed from the "deployment Container" in which the SSH command was executed, not in the "Web Container", which is used to serve your App to the web. Also those changes will be undone with your next deploy. Hence: All code changes need to be made locally and then [committed and pushed via Git](/deployment).

**No uploads**: SFTP is not available. All code changes need to be made via [Git deployment](/deployment) due to [ephemeral storage](quirks#toc-ephemeral-storage).

**No concurrent usage**: To guarantee code consistency no deployments can be made while a remote SSH command is executing. For the same reasons parallel deployments and parallel SSH executions are not allowed.

**Limited execution time**: The maximal execution time for remote SSH commands is [limited](https://www.fortrabbit.com/specs#limits).

**No background execution**: Commands cannot be detached to the background. This means: When the command execution is finished and you are back on your local shell, then the remote command execution has terminated as well - whether there are still running detached processes or not.


### Examples

One line of code says more than 1000 pages of documentation:

#### Arbitrary PHP script

```bash
$ ssh your-app@deploy.eu2.frbit.com php my-script.php arg1 arg2
```

#### Laravel: artisan

Execute `some:command` using Laravels's `artisan` CLI:

```bash
$ ssh your-app@deploy.eu2.frbit.com php artisan some:command
```

Check out the [Laravel article](/install-laravel-5#toc-migrate-amp-other-database-commands) for more examples.

#### Symfony: console

Execute `some:command` using Symfony's `app/console` CLI:

```bash
$ ssh your-app@deploy.eu2.frbit.com php app/console some:command
```

#### Gulp/SSH

A simple example which executes `my-script.php` remotely and write it's output into local `logs/output.log` file. This is the `gulpfile.js`:

```js
'use strict'

var fs = require('fs'),
  gulp = require('gulp'),
  SSH  = require('gulp-ssh');

var config = {
  host:       'deploy.eu2.frbit.com',
  port:       22,
  username:   'your-app',
  privateKey: fs.readFileSync(process.env.HOME + '/.ssh/id_rsa')
};
var ssh = new SSH({ignoreErrors: false, sshConfig: config});

gulp.task('run-script', function() {
  return ssh
    .exec('php my-script.php some-arg', {filePath: 'output.log'})
    .pipe(gulp.dest('logs'));
});

```

Then run in your local terminal:

```bash
$ gulp run-script
```


## Advanced usage

Still reading, go ahead, dive deeper!

### Chaining

You can execute multiple commands at once by quoting everything and separating the commands with a semicolon:

```
# execute three scripts
$ ssh your-app@deploy.eu2.frbit.com "php foo.php ; php bar.php ; php baz.php"
```

### Aliases

On Mac and Linux: You can define local "aliases", which reduce the amount typing when executing a remote SSH command by a lot. For example:

```
# create the alias
$ alias artisan-my-app="ssh your-app@deploy.eu2.frbit.com php artisan"

# use the alias
$ artisan-my-app migrate
# this actuall calls "ssh your-app@deploy.eu2.frbit.com php artisan migrate"
```

To persist those aliases between shell sessions you need to add them to your shell profile file. Usually that is either `~/.profile`, `~/.zshrc` or `~/.bashrc`.
