docs/stacks.md, before:


---

template:      article
naviTitle:     "About the Stacks"
title:         "About the Stacks"
reviewed:      2017-04-10
lead:          "With each App you create, you can choose between two technology stacks. This article helps you to understand why there are two stacks and how to decide."
group:         stacks
stack:         all

---


<!--  TODO: this is the same text as on the home page. a bit longer text here probably. write something about project descions, first app this stack, second app that stack … -->

## The two sentence story

**The Universal Stack** is for everyone to build websites and web applications, combining legacy workflows with modern design paradigms. **The Professional Stack** is for sophisticated developers to build modern cloud-enabled high-performance PHP web applications with lot's of traffic.


## The facts table

|                             | Universal Stack                         | Professional Stack                                |
| --------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| Websites per App            | 1 [‹ why?](/app#toc-one-website-per-app)| 1 [‹ Why?](/app#toc-one-website-per-app)          |
| Pricing model               | fixed plans                             | flexible Components                               |
| Traffic                     | low, medium                             | low - very high                                   |
| Scalability                 | xxs - s                                 | xxs - xxxl                                        |
| High Availability           | no                                      | yes, except Development level                     |
| Local storage               | persistent                              | [ephemeral](#toc-ephemeral-storage)               |
| Primary application type    | websites                                | web applications                                  |
| Secondary application type  | web applications                        | websites                                          |
| Architecture                | single webserver + db server            | distributed containers                            |
| Required skill level        | beginner                                | sophisticated                                     |
| Deployment protocols        | SFTP, Git, SSH                          | Git                                               |
| Composer integration        | after Git push + via SSH                | after Git push                                    |
| SSH integration             | [full](ssh-uni)                         | [remote SSH execution](/remote-ssh-execution-pro) |
| Background Jobs             | a single Cron Job                       | multiple Cron and Nonstop Jobs                    |


## More infos on the stacks

* [Universal Stack article](/app-uni)
* [Professional Stack article](/app-pro)
* [Universal Stack specs](https://www.fortrabbit.com/specs)
* [Professional Stack specs](https://www.fortrabbit.com/specs-pro)

Commit message:

better intro for stacks, make clear they are DIFFERENT

docs/stacks.md, after:


---

template:      article
naviTitle:     "About the Stacks"
title:         "About the Stacks"
reviewed:      2018-05-12
lead:          "With each App you create, you can choose between two technology stacks. This article helps you to understand why there are two stacks and how to decide."
group:         stacks
stack:         all

---


## The three sentence story

The Stacks on fortrabbit are not just some marketing gimmick to sell you the more expensive package, these stacks are fundamentally different in design and use cases. **The Universal Stack** is for everyone to build websites and web applications, combining legacy workflows with modern design paradigms. **The Professional Stack** is for sophisticated developers to build modern cloud-enabled high-performance PHP web applications with lot's of traffic.


## The facts table

|                             | Universal Stack                         | Professional Stack                                |
| --------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| Websites per App            | 1 [‹ why?](/app#toc-one-website-per-app)| 1 [‹ Why?](/app#toc-one-website-per-app)          |
| Pricing model               | fixed plans                             | flexible Components                               |
| Traffic                     | low, medium                             | low - very high                                   |
| Scalability                 | xxs - s                                 | xxs - xxxl                                        |
| High Availability           | no                                      | yes, except Development level                     |
| Local storage               | persistent                              | [ephemeral](#toc-ephemeral-storage)               |
| Primary application type    | websites                                | web applications                                  |
| Secondary application type  | web applications                        | websites                                          |
| Architecture                | single webserver + db server            | distributed containers                            |
| Required skill level        | beginner                                | sophisticated                                     |
| Deployment protocols        | SFTP, Git, SSH                          | Git                                               |
| Composer integration        | after Git push + via SSH                | after Git push                                    |
| SSH integration             | [full](ssh-uni)                         | [remote SSH execution](/remote-ssh-execution-pro) |
| Background Jobs             | a single Cron Job                       | multiple Cron and Nonstop Jobs                    |


## More infos on the stacks

* [Universal Stack article](/app-uni)
* [Professional Stack article](/app-pro)
* [Universal Stack specs](https://www.fortrabbit.com/specs)
* [Professional Stack specs](https://www.fortrabbit.com/specs-pro)
