docs/troubleshooting.md, before:

---

template:      article
reviewed:      2019-09-30
title:         Troubleshooting index
naviTitle:     troubleshooting
excerpt:       Hanging somewhere? Something is not working? Check out the most common gotchas here.
lead:          New to fortrabbit? Here is a collection of common problems when getting started. 
group:         platform
stack:         all
dontList:      true

---


## It's not working!

That's a very vague error description. Please exactly define what "it" is! In general, please make sure to have read and followed our [help articles here](/) and especially the install guides section. Step by step instructions to successfully deploy your application are included. You can also search for your topic of interest.


## I can not connect via SFTP or SSH!

This can have multiple causes. Please make sure to grab the correct access credentials from the Dashboard for your App. See our [SFTP article](sftp-uni) for more on that. We offer [two access methods](/access-methods): SSH key and password. See our [SSH key troubleshooting guide](/ssh-keys) when using the later. Please also mind that SFTP and SSH login is only by [Universal Apps](/app-uni). [Professional Apps](/app-pro) have remote SSH execution, see [here](remote-ssh-execution-pro).


## I can not push code by Git!

Please also the question above on authentication. Check if SSH/SFTP is working for you and if Git is setup correctly. Also see our [getting started with Git article](/git), when you are new to this. Check out the [Git troubleshooting](/git-deployment#toc-troubleshooting) section.


## Composer update is failing!

That's likely because you have tried to run the Composer update on the App itself? That's not the way it is supposed to work for most workflows. Please also see the [Composer article](/composer) and especially the section on [using Composer via SSH](/composer#toc-composer-from-ssh).


## Old files are not deleted!

When deploying with Git, you might wonder why some old files have not been deleted from the Apps web storage, although you have deleted them from Git. That's not a bug, it's a feature. The [Universal Stack](/app-uni) has a persistent web storage, therefore the App can change the file system, like when uploading images. The Git repo and the web storage are not the same thing, so those changes will not be reflected in the Git repo. That's, why with the Universal Apps, the Git deployment uses an overwrite but not delete strategy. Changes will be applied, nothing will get deleted. You can login to that App by [SSH](/ssh-uni) or [SFTP](/sftp-uni) and delete the files manually. See more details in our [deployment article](deployment-methods-uni#toc-git-works-only-one-way).


## I see a 403 error

That can have multiple causes. One common reason is that the hidden `.htaccess` file is missing. See [here](/htaccess#toc-missing-htaccess).


## I see a 404 error

That can have multiple causes: Maybe no code deployed, maybe wrong root path, maybe something else. Please see [here](app#toc-404-not-found).



## My domain is not working!

That can have multiple causes. See the [DNS and domain troubleshooting help](domains#toc-troubleshooting-dns), also make sure to read the info above.


## I see an SSL cert error

Most likely you have just added your domain and it still takes a while until the Let's Encrypt certs will kick in. See our [HTTPS troubleshooting section](https#toc-troubleshooting-tls) for more.


## I see a 5xx error

You can likely find out about that yourself. Please see [the App troubleshooting section](/app#toc-500-internal-server-error) for more.


## I uploaded Craft by SFTP but it's not working!

Most likely you have not followed our install guides. We expect you to have a [local development environment](/local-development) and fortrabbit to be production. Please see the [Craft SFTP guide](/craft-3-upload-sftp#toc-service-unavailable-error).


## I clicked on my desired software but it got not installed!

That's the expected behavior. The software preset will only set some defaults. You will install the software yourself. More on that [here](/app#toc-software-preset). Please follow your specific [install guides](/#install-guides).


## The password reset is not working

Maybe you have used a different e-mail? Check if that is the correct e-mail. Or maybe you have setup 2FA earlier? Then you need to 1st just enter something with e-mail / password and then click on the "looking for 2FA" link. That's a design flaw on our side. Sorry.


## It's still not working!

See what the error says and try to find out the solution yourself. This is a hosting platform for developers. We expect you to be able to help yourself. We just like to help you finding a solution yourself.


## But I still have problems

Do not hesitate to contact us. Make sure to provide all details upfront so that we can back on you easily. See [here](https://www.fortrabbit.com/support-policy#successful-support) on how to get good support quickly.


## Blacklisting

We are actively filtering deployment traffic for security reasons: too many falsy login attempts or parallel connections are considered dangerous and will therefore get blacklisted. This applies to all kind of deployment connections, S3, SSH/SFTP and Git.

Before thinking about blacklisting, please assure that it has worked before. We haven't had any support case where blacklisting occurred before it worked at least once. So, when you have not been able to connect before, chances are very very high that this is NOT blacklisting. Please see our [access methods troubleshooting section](/access-methods#toc-troubleshooting) next instead.

Get a new IP by disconnecting from the internet shortly, by restarting your router device. <a class="type-bold" href="#asd" onclick="Intercom('showNewMessage', 'I might have been blacklisted, my IP is: __.__.__.__. My App Name is _______. Its not the first time I am trying to connect, it has worked before.')">Ask us</a> to remove your IP from the blacklisting ban.

Commit message:

More details to root path.

docs/troubleshooting.md, after:

---

template:      article
reviewed:      2019-09-30
title:         Troubleshooting index
naviTitle:     troubleshooting
excerpt:       Hanging somewhere? Something is not working? Check out the most common gotchas here.
lead:          New to fortrabbit? Here is a collection of common problems when getting started. 
group:         platform
stack:         all
dontList:      true

---


## It's not working!

That's a very vague error description. Please exactly define what "it" is! In general, please make sure to have read and followed our [help articles here](/) and especially the install guides section. Step by step instructions to successfully deploy your application are included. You can also search for your topic of interest.


## I can not connect via SFTP or SSH!

This can have multiple causes. Please make sure to grab the correct access credentials from the Dashboard for your App. See our [SFTP article](sftp-uni) for more on that. We offer [two access methods](/access-methods): SSH key and password. See our [SSH key troubleshooting guide](/ssh-keys) when using the later. Please also mind that SFTP and SSH login is only by [Universal Apps](/app-uni). [Professional Apps](/app-pro) have remote SSH execution, see [here](remote-ssh-execution-pro).


## I can not push code by Git!

Please also the question above on authentication. Check if SSH/SFTP is working for you and if Git is setup correctly. Also see our [getting started with Git article](/git), when you are new to this. Check out the [Git troubleshooting](/git-deployment#toc-troubleshooting) section.


## Composer update is failing!

That's likely because you have tried to run the Composer update on the App itself? That's not the way it is supposed to work for most workflows. Please also see the [Composer article](/composer) and especially the section on [using Composer via SSH](/composer#toc-composer-from-ssh).


## Old files are not deleted!

When deploying with Git, you might wonder why some old files have not been deleted from the Apps web storage, although you have deleted them from Git. That's not a bug, it's a feature. The [Universal Stack](/app-uni) has a persistent web storage, therefore the App can change the file system, like when uploading images. The Git repo and the web storage are not the same thing, so those changes will not be reflected in the Git repo. That's, why with the Universal Apps, the Git deployment uses an overwrite but not delete strategy. Changes will be applied, nothing will get deleted. You can login to that App by [SSH](/ssh-uni) or [SFTP](/sftp-uni) and delete the files manually. See more details in our [deployment article](deployment-methods-uni#toc-git-works-only-one-way).


## I see a 403 error

That can have multiple causes. One common reason is that the hidden `.htaccess` file is missing, see [here](/htaccess#toc-missing-htaccess). Another common issue is that you have forgotten to set a correct root path, see [here](https://help.fortrabbit.com/app#toc-root-path).


## I see a 404 error

That can have multiple causes: Maybe no code deployed, maybe wrong root path, maybe something else. Please see [here](app#toc-404-not-found).



## My domain is not working!

That can have multiple causes. See the [DNS and domain troubleshooting help](domains#toc-troubleshooting-dns), also make sure to read the info above.


## I see an SSL cert error

Most likely you have just added your domain and it still takes a while until the Let's Encrypt certs will kick in. See our [HTTPS troubleshooting section](https#toc-troubleshooting-tls) for more.


## I see a 5xx error

You can likely find out about that yourself. Please see [the App troubleshooting section](/app#toc-500-internal-server-error) for more.


## I uploaded Craft by SFTP but it's not working!

Most likely you have not followed our install guides. We expect you to have a [local development environment](/local-development) and fortrabbit to be production. Please see the [Craft SFTP guide](/craft-3-upload-sftp#toc-service-unavailable-error).


## I clicked on my desired software but it got not installed!

That's the expected behavior. The software preset will only set some defaults. You will install the software yourself. More on that [here](/app#toc-software-preset). Please follow your specific [install guides](/#install-guides).


## The password reset is not working

Maybe you have used a different e-mail? Check if that is the correct e-mail. Or maybe you have setup 2FA earlier? Then you need to 1st just enter something with e-mail / password and then click on the "looking for 2FA" link. That's a design flaw on our side. Sorry.


## It's still not working!

See what the error says and try to find out the solution yourself. This is a hosting platform for developers. We expect you to be able to help yourself. We just like to help you finding a solution yourself.


## But I still have problems

Do not hesitate to contact us. Make sure to provide all details upfront so that we can back on you easily. See [here](https://www.fortrabbit.com/support-policy#successful-support) on how to get good support quickly.


## Blacklisting

We are actively filtering deployment traffic for security reasons: too many falsy login attempts or parallel connections are considered dangerous and will therefore get blacklisted. This applies to all kind of deployment connections, S3, SSH/SFTP and Git.

Before thinking about blacklisting, please assure that it has worked before. We haven't had any support case where blacklisting occurred before it worked at least once. So, when you have not been able to connect before, chances are very very high that this is NOT blacklisting. Please see our [access methods troubleshooting section](/access-methods#toc-troubleshooting) next instead.

Get a new IP by disconnecting from the internet shortly, by restarting your router device. <a class="type-bold" href="#asd" onclick="Intercom('showNewMessage', 'I might have been blacklisted, my IP is: __.__.__.__. My App Name is _______. Its not the first time I am trying to connect, it has worked before.')">Ask us</a> to remove your IP from the blacklisting ban.
